Welcome back.
In this video, you're going to learn
about hidden Markov models and
you will use them to decode
the hidden states of a word.
In our case, the hidden states is just
the parts of speech of that word.
You will also learn about emission
probabilities in this video.
So let me show you.
The name hidden Markov model
implies that states are hidden or
not directly observable.
Going back to the Markov model that has
the states for the parts of speech,
such as noun, verb, or other, you can
now think of these as hidden states
because these are not directly
observable from the text data.
It may seem a little confusing to
think that this data is hidden because
if you look at a certain word such as
jump, as a human who is familiar with
the English language,
you can see that this is a verb.
From a machine's perspective, however,
it's only sees the text jump and
doesn't know whether it is a verb or
a noun.
For a machine looking at the text data,
what it's going to observe are the actual
words, such as jump, run, and fly.
These words are said to be observable
because they can be seen by the machine.
The Markov chain model and
hidden Markov model have transition
probabilities, which can be
represented by a matrix A of
dimensions n plus 1 by n where n
is the number of hidden states.
The hidden Markov model also has
additional probabilities known as
emission probabilities.
These describe the transition from the
hidden states of your hidden Markov model,
which are parts of speech seen here
as circles for noun, verb, and other,
to the observables or the words of your
corpus, shown here inside rectangles.
Here for example are the observables for
the hidden states vb,
which are the words going, to, eat.
The emission probability from the hidden
states verb to the observable eat is 0.5.
This means when the model is currently
at the hidden state for a verb,
there is a 50% chance that the observable
the model will emit is the word eats.
Here's an equivalent
representation of the emission
probabilities in the form of a table.
Each row is designated for
one of the hidden states.
A column is designated for
each of the observables.
For example, the row for
the hidden state verb intersects with
the column for the observable eats.
The value, 0.5,
is the emission probability of going from
the state verb to emitting
the observable eat.
The emission matrix represents the
probabilities for the transition of your
n hidden states representing your parts of
speech tags to the n words in your corpus.
Again, the row sum of
probabilities is 1 and
what you might have realized in this
example is that there are emission
probabilities greater than 0 for
all three of our parts of speech tags.
This is because words can have
a different parts of speech tag and
sign depending on the context
in which they appear.
For example,
the word back should have a different part
of speech tag in each of the sentences.
The noun tag for the sentence,
he lay on his back,
and the adverb tag for, I'll be back.
A quick recap of hidden Markov models.
They consist of a set of N states, Q.
The transition matrix
A has dimension N by N and
the emission matrix B
has dimension N by V.
You have seen the notation for
hidden Markov models.
You've also learned how to compute the
transition and the emission probabilities.